Story Recapped here.
Today, I’m going to explain a fantasy, horror,
and mystery film called, “Sleepy Hollow.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
One stormy night, Peter Van Garrett is riding
his carriage through the fields when a mysterious
galloping follows him.
He hears a thick cutting sound and looks outside
the window only to see his driver beheaded.
He jumps out of the carriage and runs through
the field.
He stops and sees a scarecrow and hears something
approaching him.
When he turns around, a scythe comes down
and cuts off his head.
In 1799, in New York City, police constable,
Ichabod Crane, finds a floating corpse in
the city river.
They take the corpse to the prison to burn
despite Ichabod’s protest to properly rule
out the man’s death.
Ichabod’s strict belief in science and his
relentless pursuit of justice is strongly
resented among his peers and he is soon sent
to a small town called Sleepy Hollow to investigate
a series of murders.
As he travels to his new assignment, he reflects
on his scarred hands and thinks about what
the town has in store for him.
When Ichabod arrives, he senses the town’s
fear and paranoia.
He walks up to a big house and ignores a couple
making out in the shadows outside.
He accidentally interrupts a party game while
looking for the head of the house and receives
a kiss from the daughter, Katrina Van Tassel,
and meets her hostile suitor, Brom Van Brunt.
Ichabod introduces himself to Katrina’s
father, the wealthy businessman, Baltus Van
Tassel, and meets his second wife, Mary Preston,
now known as Lady Van Tassel.
The Van Tassels let Ichabod board with them
for the remainder of his stay in Sleepy Hollow.
As he unpacks his luggage in his room, a maid
named Sarah tells him how thankful she is
that a constable has arrived.
He is invited by Van Tassel to his private
study and meets the town elders, the local
doctor, Dr. Thomas Lancaster, the Reverend
Steenwyck, the magistrate, Samuel Philipse,
and notary, James Hardenbrook.
Ichabod lays out the details of the case.
Three people have been murdered, Peter Van
Garrett, his son, Dirk Van Garrett, and the
Widow Winship.
All three were found decapitated.
The town elders inform Ichabod that the heads
of the corpses were never recovered.
They believe that it’s been taken by the
Headless Horseman.
The horseman was a Hessian mercenary from
the Revolutionary War who loved carnage and
rode a giant black steed named Daredevil.
He sharpened his teeth to add ferocity to
his appearance and rode his horse hard into
battle, chopping off the heads of his enemies.
The Hessian didn’t meet his end until one
winter in 1779 when his steed was shot near
Western Woods, just next to Sleepy Hollow.
The soldiers chase him into the woods where
he meets two little girls gathering firewood.
One of the girls makes a noise that alerts
the soldiers to his location.
The girl looks on as her sister runs away,
watching the soldiers fight the Hessian and
eventually chop off his head with his own
sword.
They buried him in an unmarked spot deep in
the woods and for 20 years, his spirits have
haunted the place ever since.
The town elders believe that the horseman
is chopping off any head that he sees on sight.
Ichabod is skeptical and they hand him a bible
to read.
He notices that there’s a family tree of
the Van Garretts and Van Tassels inside the
book.
Later that night, one of Van Garrett’s servants,
Jonathan Masbath, guards the edge of the town
against the horseman.
As he aims his gun at the fog, he sees something
sinister.
A shot is fired, a horse neighs, and seconds
later, Jonathan is running through the woods
from the Headless Horseman.
The Hessian soon catches up to him and his
sword cuts off Jonathan’s head in one clean
slice.
The next morning, Ichabod sees Mr. Killian
who lends him a horse named Gunpowder.
He also meets Mr. Killian’s family, his
wife who serves as a midwife, Beth, and their
son, Thomas.
Just then, the locals fire a gun to alert
the townsfolk of another murder.
Ichabod arrives at the crime scene and sees
that the town elders have already gathered
around the body.
They inform the constable about the victim,
Jonathan Masbath.
Ichabod reprimands them for moving the body
and raises the question as to why the Hessian
is taking the heads with him if the body is
easily identifiable.
Usually, heads are taken so that the body
will not be identified.
He continues to investigate the scene and
brings out his own scientific contraptions,
noting that the wound cauterized immediately,
which means the flame must have been burning
red hot.
The town elders shiver at the grisly thought.
Later that day, the town holds a funeral for
Jonathan.
Ichabod takes the orphaned young Masbath under
his wing and service.
As the others leave, the magistrate Philipse
approaches Ichabod and tells him that Jonathan
was the fifth victim and not the fourth.
There are five victims buried in four graves.
Suddenly, Ichabod has an idea and orders Masbath
to wake him before dawn.
When the dawn comes, Ichabod, together with
Masbath, exhumes all four bodies.
As he investigates Widow Winship’s corpse,
he notices an incision on her stomach.
He takes the corpse to the town doctor’s
office and inspects it.
He raises the question as to why the horseman
would cut off her head and stab the widow
in the stomach as well.
Ichabod ushers them out as he investigates
further.
Hours later, a bloody Ichabod emerges from
the room and announces to the town elders
that Widow Winship was with child by the time
she was murdered.
Evening comes and Ichabod crosses the town
bridge with his horse, Gunpowder.
He hears a sound and sees the Headless Horseman
at the end of the bridge.
He runs away from the Hessian and into the
woods.
He stops and looks around and the horseman
throws at him a blazing pumpkin head.
Unbeknownst to him, the Hessian was fake for
it was only Brom dressed up as the horseman,
playing a cruel prank on him.
At night, Ichabod dreams of his mother.
He remembers her drawing circles near the
hearth and tucking him in bed with his favorite
red cardinal paper toy.
He also remembers a horrible man lurking in
the shadows.
When Ichabod wakes up, he goes downstairs
to get a glass of water.
He hears a sound and catches Katrina reading
by the fire.
He learns from Katrina that her own mother
died two years ago and the lady who nursed
her is now her stepmother, Mary Preston, now
the Lady Van Tassel.
He asks her why nobody brought up the fact
that the Van Tassels are related to the Van
Garretts.
Katrina says it’s because everyone in Sleepy
Hollow is related to each other either by
blood or marriage.
She then tells her how her father had come
to this place as a poor man.
Van Garrett had set him up with a broken-down
cottage and an acre.
Her father worked hard, prospered, and gave
her the life she had today.
Katrina then gives him a book of spells to
protect him before taking him down to the
old cottage where they used to live.
When they arrive, Katrina notices the scars
on Ichabod’s hands.
She takes him to the old fireplace and starts
drawing on the ashes.
He gasps as he sees that it’s the same symbol
from the one his mother drew in his dreams.
She then shows him the carving of an archer
deep into the fireplace, saying that the carving
was already there before they even moved in.
Ichabod then shows her his red cardinal paper
toy.
Separate pictures that become one once you
spin them fast enough.
Later that night, Ichabod eavesdrops as the
town elders hold a secret meeting.
It seems like the magistrate Philipse has
packed his luggage and is to set out of town.
He follows the magistrate and stops him by
the fields.
Ichabod confronts him about the Widow Winship
and her child.
It turns out the widow had sought out his
help to protect the rights of her child and
so he was bound by oath to keep that secret.
Philipse knows who the father of the child
is and reassures him that it was the horseman
who killed her.
Feeling frustrated, Ichabod denies the existence
of the horseman.
Suddenly, their conversation is cut short
by the bleating of goats.
Philipse gasps as he sees the shadow of the
Hessian galloping towards them.
The magistrate tries to run away but the horseman
catches up to him and chops off his head.
Ichabod falls to the ground as Philipse’s
head rolls towards him.
The Hessian runs towards him and takes the
head with his sword just before Ichabod faints.
When Ichabod wakes up, Van Tassel, Katrina,
and young Masbath visit him.
He is hysterical as he tells them that the
horseman really does exist before fainting
again.
He dreams of his mother again and this time
they are playing in the forest as it snows.
The dream suddenly turns dark as a young Ichabod
witnesses her mother getting abused by the
horrible man.
Ichabod wakes up and announces to the town
elders that he will go to the Western Woods
today and look for the horseman’s grave.
He ends up going with only the young Masbath.
He learns that Masbath’s father worked for
the Van Garretts and that one particular thing
happened a week before the Van Garretts’
deaths.
An argument erupted between the father and
son and later Masbath’s father was sent
for by Mr. Van Garrett.
They continue their journey into the woods
and stop near a trail leading into a cave.
As they get nearer, they hear the voice of
a woman and Ichabod takes out his gun.
They slowly walk into the cave and see a veiled
woman living there.
Ichabod quickly realizes that she is a witch.
The witch takes Ichabod with her and orders
Masbath to go outside.
She lets him sit at her table as she chains
herself up and prepares a ritual.
He asks about the horseman and if there’s
any way to stop him.
The witch tells him to shut up and the room
grows silent.
Suddenly, the witch lunges at him with eyes
and tongue gouging out of her face.
In a hoarse voice, she commands him to follow
the Indian trail right to where the sun dies,
where they will find the Tree of the Dead
and climb down to the horseman’s resting
place.
Ichabod breaks free from the witch’s clutches
and flees with Masbath.
They take their horses to search for the Tree
of the Dead.
They soon stop on their trails and Ichabod
jumps off his horse with his gun to hunt a
shadow.
He spots a white horse and its rider, Katrina,
who followed them into the woods.
Their conversation is then cut short by Masbath
who leads them to a gigantic twisting tree
in the middle of the woods.
They finally found the Tree of the Dead.
Ichabod starts chopping the roots and finds
them full of blood.
He continues chopping until the roots open
up and reveal a hiding place full of severed
heads.
Ichabod concludes that the tree must be the
gateway between two worlds.
He jumps up the tree and starts digging on
the hill.
He uncovers the Hessian’s skeleton but the
skull is gone.
He tells them that this must be why the horseman
keeps taking heads.
He will not stop until his own head is returned
to him.
All of a sudden, a rumbling comes from the
pile of severed heads.
Ichabod, Katrina, and Masbath look on in terror
as the pile of heads open up, and out comes
the giant steed, Daredevil, and his rider,
the Headless Horseman.
The Hessian gallops away in search of his
next victim and Ichabod quickly follows him.
The horseman arrives at the Killians’ house
and quickly eliminates Mr. Killian.
Beth manages to hide Thomas under the basement
and hides in the corner of the room as the
murderer walks in with her husband’s head.
She too is decapitated and the horseman leaves
no mercy even for little Thomas.
Meanwhile, Brom, who’s on guard duty for
the night, hears the screams.
He sees the horseman and fires at him, knocking
him off his horse.
The headless body makes its way towards him
as he reloads his gun, but Brom manages to
fight back.
The Hessian throws a knife at Brom’s knee,
hindering his abilities.
Ichabod arrives and tries to help his friend.
He stabs the horseman in the back as they
make a run for it across the bridge.
As they turn around to look for their enemy,
the horseman surprises them from the back
and stabs Ichabod on the shoulder then tosses
him aside.
He then lures Brom into the bridge and fights
him again, landing a few swings on him before
finally cutting his torso in half.
Ichabod looks up as he sees the Headless Horseman
walking away before he faints again.
Back at Van Tassel’s house, Dr. Lancaster
inspects Ichabod’s wounds.
The doctor is surprised that the wound has
fared well and has bled very little.
When Ichabod wakes up, he apologizes to Katrina
right away to defend Brom.
He then tells them that the horseman doesn’t
kill at random.
Someone who’s alive must have dug out the
Hessian’s skull and is using it to control
him to do their bidding.
His theory is dismissed as Katrina makes him
drink a homebrewed potion.
As Ichabod sleeps, he dreams of the horrible
man again, but this time it’s the headless
horseman.
He goes inside a red door to a room full of
torture devices and accidentally stabs his
hands into one of the devices before finding
his mother dead with a thousand holes stabbed
into her.
Ichabod wakes up and runs into Katrina’s
arm.
He reveals to her that his mother was murdered
by this father in an attempt to save her damned
soul.
He was only seven years old when he lost her
and he lost her faith in religion as well.
As Ichabod and Katrina grow closer together,
they show their vulnerable side and express
their attraction to one another.
They soon share an intimate embrace.
By the time Ichabod wakes up, he lays out
the fact of the case with Masbath.
He thinks that there must be a conspiracy
brewing amongst the town elders for they were
arguing on the night the magistrate was murdered.
Ichabod then concludes to make a record of
every man and woman in Sleepy Hollow, starting
with the chief citizen, Lord Van Tassel.
Masbath agrees that Van Tassel must be the
chief citizen now since the Van Garretts are
dead.
Suddenly, Ichabod has an idea and takes Masbath
with him to see the notary.
When they arrive at Hardenbrook’s office,
Masbath sees his father’s satchel.
They learn from the notary that since all
of the Van Garretts is dead, the estate will
pass on to the next of kin which is the Van
Tassels.
Just then, Masbath reveals a document from
his father’s satchel.
It turns out that Peter Van Garrett created
a new will leaving his estate to the Widow
Winship.
The two secretly married and left everything
to their unborn child.
Hardenbrook admits to being pulled in unwillingly
into the plot.
Ichabod concludes that Reverend Steenwyck
knew about the marriage because he performed
the ceremony, Dr. Lancaster attended the pregnant
woman, Magistrate Philipse gave protection
of the law, and the notary Hardenbrook concealed
the documents.
The four elders had conspired to have Van
Garretts and Widow Winship eliminated so that
there would be no more heirs to claim.
Masbath’s father was drawn into the plot
as he was the one who bore witness to Van
Garrett’s new will, ultimately leading to
his death.
This way the only one who will inherit Van
Garrett’s fortune is none other than Baltus
Van Tassel himself.
Ichabod returns to his room and finds Katrina
who inquires about the investigation.
He refuses to tell her anything of importance
and slips the will into his drawer.
When she leaves, Masbath finds a symbol drawn
under Ichabod’s bed, telling him that it’s
the evil eye and someone is casting spells
against him.
Later that night, Ichabod and Masbath follow
a hooded figure leaving the house and heading
for the woods.
Masbath waits for him by a tree as he goes
further.
Hidden amongst the trees, Ichabod finds Lady
Van Tassel making love with Reverend Steenwyck,
as she digs a dagger into her hand and wipes
it onto the man’s back.
Ichabod and Masbath return to the house immediately
and find that the new will had been stolen.
Ichabod rides to the old cottage and catches
up to Katrina as she burns the will to protect
her father.
The two argue, conflicted about their feelings
for one another and his sense of justice,
and Katrina bids him goodbye.
Ichabod talks to Lady Van Tassel but Katrina
still refuses to talk to him.
She confronts him and tells him that she knows
that he saw her last night.
She then asks him to keep it from her husband.
Just then, Lord Van Tassel enters the kitchen
and tells them Hardenbrook has killed himself.
Reverend Steenwyck has called a meeting at
the church where everyone will speak against
Ichabod.
Van Tassel advises him to leave immediately.
As the townsfolk gather at the church, Van
Tassel waits for his wife on his horse as
she picks out some herbs for her wound.
Suddenly, the Headless Horseman appears from
behind the trees and chops off her head.
Van Tassel arrives at the church and warns
Katrina about the Hessian who had just killed
her stepmother.
They run inside the church as the horseman
arrives.
The headless murderer stops for he cannot
enter the inside of a church.
The people start shooting at the Hessian through
the windows while an argument ensues amongst
the town elders.
Van Tassel takes out his gun to defend himself
as Dr. Lacanster starts confessing that the
four of them were bewitched and were forced
to plot against him.
But before he could finish confessing, Reverend
Steenwyck hits him on the head and kills him.
Van Tassel then fires his gun at the reverend.
He backs away and points out his gun, threatening
everyone to stay back.
Suddenly, the window breaks, and Van Tassel
is harpooned out by the Headless Horseman.
Katrina screams as his father is dragged out
of the church and has his head cut off.
She faints and Ichabod sees the pink chalk
near her palm.
It turns out that she was the one who drew
the symbol under his bed.
Ichabod and Masbath take Katrina back to the
house but she hasn’t woken up yet.
Ichabod suspects that she is the one who has
brought the horseman back to life.
He calls for his carriage and prepares to
leave.
As he’s passing through the village, he
sees the townsfolk carrying Lady Van Tassel’s
body into the morgue.
He opens the spellbook that Katrina gifted
him and learns that the symbol she’s drawing
wasn’t the evil eye but a protection spell
for loved ones against evil spirits.
Ichabod knows he has to make things right
and asks the carriage to turn back to the
town.
Ichabod heads the morgue and inspects Lady
Van Tassel’s corpse.
It’s just as he suspected.
The cut on the hand was made when the body
was already dead.
This body was not Lady Van Tassel.
Meanwhile, back at the house, Katrina faints
after she sees her stepmother alive and well.
Lady Van Tassel takes Katrina to an old windmill
and unbeknownst to her, Masbath follows them.
She cuts a lock of her stepdaughter’s hair
and uses it in her spell.
It turns out that it was Lady Van Tassel all
along.
She stole the horseman’s head and had made
a pact with the devil to bring the Headless
Horseman back to life to do her bidding.
She summons the Hessian from the Tree of the
Dead one last time to kill Katrina.
When Katrina wakes up, Lady Van Tassel reveals
her true nature.
She killed one of the maids, Sarah, and used
her body to disguise her own death.
Her real name wasn’t Mary Preston, but it’s
Mary Archer.
Her family lived in an old cottage and served
the Van Garretts for years.
When her father died, they got evicted and
were outcasts living in the woods because
her mother was suspected of witchcraft.
After a year, her mother died and she and
her sister were left to fend off for themselves.
While gathering firewood, she witnessed the
horseman’s death and at that moment, she
offered her soul to the devil to help her
bring the Hessian back to life to avenge her.
She killed the town elders and anyone who
knew her plot, even her own sister, the witch
who lived in the woods.
She will kill the Van Garretts who starved
her family and take their estate and kill
the Van Tassels who stole their cottage.
All that’s left to do is kill Katrina and
she will have everything she wanted.
As Lady Van Tassel drones on, Masbath creeps
behind her with a hammer, but she turns to
him and makes him drop the weapon.
Katrina and Masbath run out of the windmill
just in time to meet up with Ichabod.
The horseman drives them back up to the mill
and they barred the doors.
They climb up to the roof just as the Hessian
knocks down the door.
He chops down the ladder but Ichabod and the
rest of the group make it to the roof.
He drops a gaslight down to the mill, hoping
to burn the horseman alive.
The three grab hold of the windmill and jump
as soon as they get near the ground.
They run away just as the windmill erupts
in an enormous blast of fire, but the Headless
Horseman survives.
The three ride the carriage and the pursuit
continues.
Katrina takes the reins as Ichabod shoots
at the horseman.
He’s knocked down by a tree branch and is
left riding the devil’s steed.
He jumps back to the carriage and pushes the
horseman back to his own horse.
As they’re both dragged by their own horses,
Ichabod makes his way back to the carriage
and faces the horseman.
A struggle ensues and the other two jump to
the horses as the carriage breaks free.
Ichabod grabs hold onto the reins as the carriage
strays away and jumps into a ditch together
with Hessian.
Ichabod, Katrina, and Masbath arrive at the
Tree of the Dead and face Lady Van Tassel
who shoots Ichabod on the chest.
She grabs Katrina and orders the Headless
Horseman to take her.
Ichabod regains consciousness and realizes
that the book of spells saved his life.
He jumps at Lady Van Tassel who lets go of
Katrina.
The two stumble to the ground and struggle
to get ahold of the horseman’s skull.
Meanwhile, Masbath grabs a branch and knocks
out Lady Van Tassel.
The horseman grabs Katrina and is about to
chop her head off when Ichabod grabs the skull
and tosses it back to the Hessian.
The horseman regains his head and the contract
is broken, he is no longer under the wicked
stepmother’s bidding.
Ichabod and Katrina embrace and he shows her
how her gift has protected her.
The Hessian, now with his head, takes Lady
Van Tassel into his arms and gives her a bloody
kiss.
Lady Van Tassel realizes that she has lost.
She screams as the horseman takes her into
the Tree of the Dead and to the depths of
hell.
The three look at the stepmother’s remaining
arm as they realize that it’s finally over
and Ichabod faints again.
After a while, Ichabod marries Katrina and
brings her, as well as Masbath to New York
City, where they will live a new and blissful
life.